{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf830
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Italic;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red53\green53\blue53;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c27059\c27059\c27059;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 JOT\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/bookmarks.php?add_bookmark=1&mediatype=software&identifier=jot_0.53_ted_nelson&title=Ted+Nelson%27s+JOT+word-processing+interface%2C+1970-2"}}{\fldrslt 
\b\fs28 \cf3 favorite\
}}\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\qc\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 share\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\b\fs34 \cf2 software\
Ted Nelson's JOT word-processing interface, 1970-2\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 by\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=creator%3A%22Ted+Nelson+%281986+Rebuild+by+Steve+Witham%29%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Ted Nelson (1986 Rebuild by Steve Witham)}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Publication date\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=date:1986"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 1986}}\
Topics\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Ted+Nelson%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Ted Nelson}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Notation%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Notation}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Apple+II%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Apple II}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%221986%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 1986}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Jot%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Jot}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Steve+Witham%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Steve Witham}},\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=subject%3A%22Forth%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Forth}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 Contributor\'a0Ted Nelson\
\pard\pardeftab560\sa40\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 Language\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=%28language%3Aeng+OR+language%3A%22English%22%29"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 English}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
JOT was the front end of HyperTyper, an early word processor intended for the 1972 market; unfortunately the backer backed out, ending the project.\
\
The original 1972 version was designed to use a teletype for input and output. \'a0\
\
What you're seeing, the 1986 rebuild, was for the Apple II, which had a screen but no pointing device, and no built-in lower case. \'a0(To get lower case, you had to buy a piece of hardware \'a0called the Paymar Adapter, a "daughterboard" that plugged into the motherboard of the Apple II.)\
\
STEPPING. \'a0Instead of pointing directly, you "step" between words, sentences or paragraphs. \'a0This is easy.\
\
AUTOMATIC CAPITALIZATION. \'a0While the Apple II had a shift key, JOT didn't need it except for names-- capitalization of sentences was automatic, as was decapitalization, when you changed the beginning of a sentence by adding, deleting or rearranging. \'a0(This was part of the original 1970 design, and fairly comfortable.)\
\
( WARNING: delete key crashes this simulation. )\
\
SIMPLE OPERATIONS: \'a0Using the space bar, you step between words, sentences and paragraphs, and insert text merely by typing. \'a0\
\
LEVELS: \'a0There are three levels. \'a0If you are at the Word level, Step moves the cursor past one word. \'a0If you are at Sentence level, Step moves the cursor past one sentence. \'a0If you are at Paragraph level, Step moves the cursor past one paragraph. \'a0(Left-arrow goes backward by the next larger unit.)\
\
CHANGING LEVELS: you hit Enter, and the number of beeps tells you what level you are entering-- one beep for Word Level, two beeps for Sentence Level, three beeps for Paragraph Level, and then one beep for Word Level again.\
\
INSERTION: just type a word. \'a0If you type it at the beiginning of a sentence, the capitalization of the sentence changes automatically.\
\
For more operations and details, see\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://xanadu.com/jotinstructions.txt"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 http://xanadu.com/jotinstructions.txt}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \
Commands for 1986 rebuild, may not all work in this emulator
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f2\i \cf2 Please note: a TOTAL Apple II emulator may soon be available.
\f0\i0 \
\
SPACE	Move to next unit\
/	Delete\
@	Slurp next unit\
+	Spit out last SLURPed unit\
^	Save\
Right Arrow	Move to next unit\
Left Arrow	Move to previous unit\
CTRL-N	Add or remove sound feedback\
CTRL-K	Add actual + sign\
CTRL-L	Add actual / sign\
CTRL-P	Split paragraph\
CTRL-E	Exit\
CTRL-S	Split sentence\
CTRL-O	Print\
CTRL-Q	Clear\
CTRL-J	Join Paragraph\
CTRL-C	Caps mode switch\
Emulator\'a0apple2e\
Emulator_ext\'a0dsk\
Identifier\'a0jot_0.53_ted_nelson\
Location\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=coverage%3A%22Worldwide%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 Worldwide}}\
Scanner\'a0Internet Archive Python library 0.5.0\
Year\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://archive.org/search.php?query=year%3A%221986%22"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 1986}}\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf2 JOTinstrux17-D6\
=== 17.03.31\
\
\
INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE 1986 VERSION OF JOT(trademark)\
 -- now emulating at the Internet Archive, where you can try it\
\
\
By Steve Witham, programmer, with editorial clarifications by Ted Nelson.\
  ==> Note: "JOT" is a claimed trademark of Project Xanadu.\
 The trademark was for a while stolen by Silicon Graphics for their text editor,\
 and you know what happened to THEM.  (There appear to be other products\
 in the marketplace also claiming this name.)\
 ==> Note: "Ted Nelson's JOT" is a claimed trademark of Project Xanadu,\
 which nobody else can have.\
 ==>  Special thanks to Jason Scott for getting this working at the Archive.\
\
\
Ted Nelson's JOT is a keystroke word processor, utterly different from any other.  \
\
There are some people who love it, believing it to be the simplest word processor to use.  Some would use the word "intuitive". The original design goal was"creamy smooth", and some say it was.\
\
When JOT was designed, there were no--\
 - word processors [except Datatext, for remote use from IBM]\
 - personal computers [except the LINC, not for sale]\
 - computer keybards with lower case\
 - visual displays, except on very expensive machines\
 - pointing devices for visual displays, except on very expensive machines [including the prototype mouse at Engelbart's lab]\
\
JOT was designed in 1970-71 for what might have been the first stand-alone word processor, except our backer pulled out.  This 1986 version is the fourth implementation of JOT to be programmed, and the only one that has survived.  It was programmed in Forth by Steve Witham for the Apple II.  It was originally specified in the Lollipop language.  (For a brief description of Lollipop language, see xanadu.com/lollipop.pdf)  \
\
UNIQUE FEATURES of JOT\
\
1.  You step by units: one word, sentene or paragraph at a time, using the space bar.\
2.  Capitalization of sentences is automatic, anticipating constant rearrangement.\
3.  It captures lower case, even with an all-caps keyboard.\
4.  Your cursor is either between words, between sentences, or between paragraphs; UNLESS you are\
 - in the process of typing a word\
 - in the process of ending a sentence\
\
It may be opened in Firefox or Chrome at\
archive.org/stream/jot_0.53_ted_nelson/JOT0.53.dsk?module=apple2e&scale=1\
\
==> NOTE: RUNNING THIS PROGRAM QUICKLY OVERHEATS MY MACBOOK AIR. -- TN\
\
NOTE: NOT ALL OF THE FOLLOWING OPERATIONS HAVE BEEN TESTED ON THE EMULATION AT THIS SITE, and keystrokes other than those listed are likely to crash the system.  Sorry.\
\
\
=== === === OPERATIONS IN BRIEF\
Insert: Just type\
\
go forward one unit\
go back one larger unit\
change levels (to next size of unit, going in a circle: word, sentence, paragraph, word ...)\
\
delete one unit [just in this version]\
spit out the last-deleted unit [just in this version]\
\
\
=== === DETAILED DIRECTIONS\
\
=== STEP\
\
Spacebar steps the cursor one unit (word, sentence or paragraph, depending on your current level).\
\
=== INSERTION\
\
Simply typing begins an insertion.  \
\
   ==> NOTE: while you are typing a word, the cursor has a "<" in it.  The previous character may be deleted with "/".\
\
   ==>  AUTOMATIC CAPITALIZATION TRICKS.  If there is a sentence following, JOT assumes you are typing a new beginning for that sentence, and decapitalizes the previous first word-- UNLESS you finish your input by ending a sentence, in which case the previous first word is REcapitalized.\
\
\
=== DELETION (also used for crude rearrangement)\
\
"/" means delete the next unit and put it on delete stack.  [NOT THE ORIGINAL JOT REARRANGE SPEC]\
\
"@" means pop the last deleted unit back into the text, to the RIGHT of the cursor.  [NOT THE ORIGINAL JOG REARRANGE SPEC]  Note that "pop" here actually, technically means popping the deletion stack.\
\
While typing a word, "/" means delete leftward, removing the character just typed.\
\
\
=== LEVELS OF STEPPING\
\
When you are at the Word level, spacebar steps across a word; left and right arrows step a sentence.\
\
When you are at the Sentence level, spacebar steps across a sentence; left and right arrows step a paragraph.\
\
When you are at the Paragraph level, spacebar steps across a paragraph; left and right arrows go to start/end of text.\
\
THE CURSOR: when you are between units, the cursor is a solid block: one space between words, two spaces between sentences, five spaces between paragraphs.\
\
\
=== CHANGING LEVELS\
\
The RETURN key changes the level (word, sentence, paragraph, word ...). \
 (BUG: sometimes it cycles up the levels and sometimes it cycles down.)\
\
The number of beeps tells you the current level.  1=word, 2=sentence, 3=paragraph.  ("Number of beeps" undependable-- the emulator turns the beeps into double beeps on my browser.-- SW)\
\
\
=== NEW PARAGRAPH\
\
Control-P starts a new paragraph OR splits paragraph.  (Of course. -- SW)\
\
Control-J joins two paragraphs.\
\
\
=== END OF SENTENCE\
\
End of sentence is recognized automatically by any combination of\
.?!)]\}\
followed by two spaces.  (Two spaces at the end of a sentence was the typists' convention before word processors, and JOT was designed before other word processors.)\
\
    ==> QUIRK: If you type "Mr." followed by two spaces, the second space will be recognized as a sentence ending, so you should type left-arrow after the first space to go back to the beginning of the sentence.\
\
\
=== === === ANALYTIC MODES (used in the technical design charts)\
\
The main modes are [to the best of my recollection-- TN]:\
 - word mode (between words)\
 - sentence mode (between sentences)\
 - paragraph mode (between paragraphs)\
 - word midop (you are currently typing a word)\
 - sentence midop (you are possibly ending a sentence)\
 - sentence windup (waiting for second space after terminator sequence)\
\
\
=== === === FOR THOSE WHO REALLY CARE\
\
There is a way to actually save the data, but you must create a fictitious floppy in the fictitious second floppy drive of the Apple.  (below)\
\
\
=== SOUND MODE\
\
Control-N goes to the next sound mode.  There is \
 - one mode with 8 sounds,\
 - one mode with 6 sounds,\
 - one mode with 2 sounds,\
 - silent mode.\
Each mode is announced by playing all the active sounds.  ENJOY!\
\
\
=== EXTRA FEATURES FOR POWER USERS\
\
Control-S forces an end of sentence, e.g. if you are after a word that doesn't end with .?!  (The JOT algorithms would handle the beginning and end of this parenthesized sentence correctly as well.)\
\
ESC is forced caps-- 1 = one letter, 2 = one word, 3 = caps lock.\
\
+ key lets you go back to editing the end of the previous word (add or delete characters).\
\
\
=== === === SAVING YOUR WORK\
\
There is a way to actually save the data, but you must create a fictitious floppy in the fictitious second floppy drive of the emulated Apple.  \
\
Control-S Save.   At that point it's safe to "eject" the floppy.\
\
Control-E End.  Seems to save first.  Puts you in FORTH, where--\
\
COPY-DISK (& press return) copies your disk to drive 2.  You need to have "created a new blank disk" in drive 2 from the "Media" menu.\
\
NEW-DISK (& press return) creates an empty JOT disk in drive 2.  You need to have "created a new blank disk" in drive 2 from the "Media" menu.\
\
=30=}